Example of a datascience project with a couple of standard tools (#6)
MinBZK/example-data-science-project: README.md

# Example Data Science Project

## Description

This repository contains a typical example of a data science project written in Python and is used for testing purposes when
we need to have a more realstic example of an algorithm in use by the Dutch Government.

The typical steps are:

0. exploratory data analysis
1. prepping data
2. training models
3. evaluating models
4. serving a result
5. monitoring

> Building an algorithm is non-linear, because of dependencies and cycles in the above-mentioned steps. Because of this,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building an algorithm is a non-linear process, because of dependencies and cycles in the above-mentioned steps. Because of this,
```

# Example Data Science Project

## Description

This repository is a typical example of a data science project written in Python and is used for testing purposes when
we need to have a more truthful example of an algorithm in use by the Dutch Government.

The typical steps will be done:

0. exploratory data analysis
1. prepping data
2. training models
3. evaluating models
4. serving a result
5. monitoring

> Because building an algorithm is not linear and if unwanted behaviour is seen in any step of the progress it could be
> that you are returning to previous steps in the process. Because of this process, it is hard to define this in this
> project. Therefore, I have chosen comment out the chain-of-thought that one could have in order to f.e. mitigate bias
> or choosing a specific model. So when running `__main__.py` does not result in any output as it will make a model and
> does inference on it without anything to return.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Building an algorithm is non linear, because of dependencies and cycles in the above mentioned steps. Because of this, it is hard to define this in this in a standard project template. Therefore, I have chosen to make a single Python file and comment out the chain-of-thought that one could have in order to e.g. mitigate bias
or choosing a specific model. So running `__main__.py` will make a model and
does inference on it without anything to return.
```

## Kaggle

Before you can use this project you need a [kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/) account and create a token. You
can store the token in ~/.kaggle/kaggle.json

## Tools used

> Different frameworks are used for different stages in the project, for the exploratory data analyses `PyCaret` is used to
> very quickly check a bunch of models and in which direction to build the "production" model later. For the "production"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Different frameworks are used for different stages in the project. For the exploratory data analyses `PyCaret` is used to
very quickly check a bunch of models to give an indication what kind of model to train for production purposes later on. For the "production"
```

> model, `scikitlearn` is used to generate a not deep machine learning model. For the analysis on fairness and mitigation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
model, `scikitlearn` is used to generate a non-deep machine learning model. For the analysis on fairness and mitigation
```
